CS 155A Spring 2015 Assignment 01
RM Endres © 2015-01-06 Page 1 of 2 
Due Date: Jan 21, 2015 11:00 PM ( late date Jan 28, this is the only assignment with a one week late date.}
Points: 30 point max
These tasks focus on how to write SQL statements, how to use MySQL and how to write a script and produce a spool file 
for an assignment. The primary purpose of this assignment is to check that you can use the software and create the script 
and spool file as required for the assignments. I will give you the SQL for most of the tasks in this assignment.
Preliminary Tasks. These steps are NOT to be included in the script
These are tasks you need to do before you run the script. Generally these preliminary tasks will include steps that you do 
only once- such as creating tables and inserting the original rows of data that I provide.
 Create the a_testbed database if you have not done so already.
 Switch to the a_testbed database. 
 Run the SQL script to create the table zoo_2015; use the file from the download page
 Run the SQL script to populate the table zoo_2015; use the file from the download page. This will insert 10 rows. 
General Directions
Use the a_testbed database and the zoo_2015 table for this assignment. Use the assignment script template posted on the 
download page as the basis for this script. Create a script file with the queries described in the various tasks listed below. 
After you have written and tested your queries and it follows the assignment guidelines, run the script to produce the 
spooled file. Zip the script file and the spool file together into one compressed file and upload that file to the Insight page 
for this assignment. Be certain to use the file names as described in the Assignment Rules document. The script filename 
must follow the pattern A01_yourLastName.SQL ( substitute your last name in the file name) and the spool file will have 
the same name with an LST extension A01_yourLastName.LST . 
Read your spool file before you submit the assignment. It should contain 
 your name as a comment
 the use command to switch to the correct database
 Task 00 as provided in the template
 the task number for each task as a comment
 the sql query(queries) needed at each step 
 the output for each step
The file names for the files to be turned in are important. I download all of the files into a local folder for grading. The 
download programs finds only file names that end with LST ( that is the letter L not the digit 1) and SQL- so the filename 
extensions are significant. I also need your name in the file name. The case of the filename is not significant.
Remember to include the task number as a comment at each step. These comments are in the template.
Read your spool file before you turn it in. Does it show the task numbers, the SQL and the result for each query? If not,
correct the script file and rerun the script to the spool before you turn it in.
For this assignment only, I will grade files as they are posted in Insight so you should check Insight in the early evening 
the day after you have posted this assignment. If there are any significant errors, you will have a chance to resubmit this 
by Jan 28 2015 11:00 pm as a late assignment (for this assignment only).
Review the General Assignment Rules to see that your work is meeting the assignment guidelines.
For most assignments you will not have as long a set of directions but you may need all of these to get started.CS 155A Spring 2015 Assignment 01
RM Endres © 2015-01-06 Page 2 of 2 
Tasks
At the top of the script file, you should have a comment with your name followed by the commands to switch to the 
database. 
use a_testbed;
You will also have Task 00 which displays the version of MySQL you are using and some other pieces of data.
Task 01: Copy and run the following two SQL statements. The first will remove any rows from the zoo_2015 
table where the z_id value is greater than 100 and the second will show the rows in the table. At this 
point you should have the original rows that I supplied in the script. The rows I provided have a z_id 
value less than 100 and will not be deleted.
Delete 
From a_testbed.zoo_2015 
Where z_id > 100;
Select * 
From a_testbed.zoo_2015;
Task 02: (3 insert statements; it is ok to use a multi-row insert) Add an additional 3 rows to the table. For the 
animal id, use an animal id value that is greater than 100. For the rest of the data, use any data values 
you want. Post the sql for these 3 inserts to the Insight forum named A01_inserts.
Task 03: (6 insert statements) Copy and run at least 6 good inserts from the Insight forum named A01_inserts. 
The more rows you have in your table, the better for experimenting with it. You cannot complete this 
step until some other people have already done their inserts.
Task 04: Copy and run the following SQL statement. It will display the rows in the table.
Select z_name, z_type, z_id, z_cost, z_dob, z_acquired
From a_testbed.zoo_2015; 
Task 05: Write and run the SQL statement so that it shows only three columns: the type of animal in the first 
column, the animal's name in the second column and the cost in the third column. Sort the rows by the 
animal type with a secondary sort on the name. (I am sure you can figure out how to do this.)
Task 06: We want to see the id, name and date of birth of all of the zebras in the table. Display the id of animal in 
the first column, the animal's name in the second column and the date of birth in the third column.
For the last three tasks, I am asking you to display some data about your tables and databases. The other queries asked 
you to show data that is in your table. 
Task 07: Give the show tables command; this displays the names of the tables in your current database.
show tables;
Task 08: Give the descr command for this table
desc zoo_2015;
Task 09: Give the command ; don't worry about this. I need to see how people's systems are set up.
show variables like 'char%';